# Quick Start

In this section, you will learn:

* How to setup the module
* How to specify an identity provider
* How to add simple role provider

Before starting the quick start, make sure you have properly installed the module by following the instructions in
the README file.

## Specifying an identity provider

By default, ZfjRbac internally uses the `Zend\Authentication\AuthenticationService` service key to retrieve the user (logged or
not). Therefore, you must implement and register this service in your application by adding those lines in your `module.config.php` file:

```php
return [
    'service_manager' => [
        'factories' => [
	        'Zend\Authentication\AuthenticationService' => function($sm) {
	            // Create your authentication service!
	        }
	    ]
    ]
];
```
The identity given by `Zend\Authentication\AuthenticationService` must implement `ZfjRbac\Identity\IdentityInterface`. Note that the default identity provided with ZF2 does not implement this interface, neither does the ZfcUser suite.

ZfjRbac is flexible enough to use something else than the built-in `AuthenticationService`, by specifying custom
identity providers. For more information, refer [to this section](/docs/03. Role providers.md#identity-providers).

## Adding a guard

A guard allows to block access to routes and/or controllers using a simple syntax. For instance, this configuration
grants access to any route that begins with `admin` (or is exactly `admin`) to the `admin` role only:

```php
return [
    'zfc_rbac' => [
        'guards' => [
	        'ZfjRbac\Guard\RouteGuard' => [
                'admin*' => ['admin']
	        ]
        ]
    ]
];
```

ZfjRbac have several built-in guards, and you can also register your own guards. For more information, refer
[to this section](/docs/04. Guards.md#built-in-guards).

## Adding a role provider

RBAC model is based on roles. Therefore, for ZfjRbac to work properly, it must be aware of all the roles that are
used inside your application.

This configuration creates an *admin* role that has a children role called *member*. The *admin* role automatically
inherits the *member* permissions.

```php
return [
    'zfc_rbac' => [
        'role_provider' => [
	        'ZfjRbac\Role\InMemoryRoleProvider' => [
	            'admin' => [
	                'children'    => ['member'],
	                'permissions' => ['delete']
	            ],
		        'member' => [
		            'permissions' => ['edit']
		        ]
	        ]
	    ]
    ]
];
```

In this example, the *admin* role have two permissions: `delete` and `edit` (because it inherits the permissions from
its child), while the *member* role only has the permission `edit`.

ZfjRbac have several built-in role providers, and you can also register your own role providers. For more information,
refer [to this section](/docs/03. Role providers.md#built-in-role-providers).

## Registering a strategy

When a guard blocks access to a route/controller, or if you throw the `ZfjRbac\Exception\UnauthorizedException`
exception in your service, ZfjRbac automatically performs some logic for you depending on the view strategy used.

For instance, if you want ZfjRbac to automatically redirect all unauthorized requests to the "login" route, add
the following code in the `onBootstrap` method of your `Module.php` class:

```php
public function onBootstrap(EventInterface $e)
{
    $t = $e->getTarget();

    $t->getEventManager()->attach(
        $t->getServiceManager()->get('ZfjRbac\View\Strategy\RedirectStrategy')
    );
}
```

By default, `RedirectStrategy` redirects all unauthorized requests to a route named "login" when user is not connected 
and to a route named "home" when user is connected. This is, of course, entirely configurable.

> For flexibility purpose, ZfjRbac **does not** register any strategy for you by default!

For more information about built-in strategies, refer [to this section](/docs/05. Strategies.md#built-in-strategies).

## Using the authorization service

Now that ZfjRbac is properly configured, you can inject the authorization service in any class and use it to check
if the current identity is granted to do something.

The authorization service is registered inside the service manager using the following key: `ZfjRbac\Service\AuthorizationService`.
Once injected, you can use it as follow:

```php
use ZfjRbac\Exception\UnauthorizedException;

public function delete()
{
    if (!$this->authorizationService->isGranted('delete')) {
        throw new UnauthorizedException();
    }

    // Delete the post
}
```

### Navigation

* Continue to [the **Role providers**](/docs/03. Role providers.md)
* Back to [the Introduction](/docs/01. Introduction.md)
* Back to [the Index](/docs/README.md)
